All right, so now we have.
All right, so we've put together all the dependencies to use hilt the dependency injection tool that
we're going to be using.
Everything is set up and now it's time for us to look at a room database.
So the reason why we were setting everything up is so that we it will be easier for us to set up from
database.
Now keep in mind, as I said earlier, and I keep in mind that dependency injection is a huge topic
in Android development and in development in general.
And so if you are not grasping these ideas right away again, don't worry, it may take a little while
for you to really understand everything, right?
But also remember, you have to understand everything when it comes to dependency injection, but you
have to understand the advantages that we get from using dependency injection, especially using a library
such as a dagger and hilt as we are going to be, as we we've been setting it up.
That is the most important thing I want you to take away.
It's not about understanding exactly what install and means, but at least understanding how to put
together the infrastructure, because this is the way you should always look at building your Android
applications.
Again, remember, one database is just a layer abstraction layer, as they call it, which means we
are abstracting out all of the work that needs to be done on all of the classes and the objects that
that needed to be created and used in order for us to create database.
In the old days, I would call the quote unquote great old days.
So, so like with anything in development, there are many ways to do one thing, but there's always
a better way of doing things.
So when it comes to databases, we have a plethora of architecture that we can use to kind of guide
us or give us a map how we conceptualize the database in our applications.
So I'm going to show you this diagram here, which I got from Android developer site.
So there's lots going on in this diagram, and at first, we will look at this and feel very overwhelmed
and confused and so forth.
Or you can look at this and understand at least parts of it.
But the idea here is we have this architecture that will help us deal with databases because databases
can be very complicated, large and complex as our applications grow.
So again, having a structure right in architecture that helps us conceptualize these ideas put together
these pieces.
It will really help us as the application grows in complexity.
So if you look at this diagram, you'll see that we have this entity at the bottom, which is room database,
a room database.
What he does is encapsulates the SQL eight so where the data actually is going to be stored and it has
all the complications, the classes and everything that we don't even need to go into, right?
And also encloses the entities.
Entities here are just tables of our database, right?
So we can say I can create a database and I have a person table, I have a department table and so forth.
Right.
But now we need to think of a structure that will allow us to communicate with SQLite, which is which
connects two entities, which has our database, which means it has all of the tables and so forth.
We need a way to connect to all of this underlining system here or architecture, right?
All of these memories inside of a room database, that's what it encapsulates.
What need to be able to access that information so that the application.
So if we go upwards in our diagram here, the last thing we have at the top of the green is the actual
application, the UI controller, it says, actively fragment.
But in this case could be anything or it could be possible and so forth.
So internally, you see here we have this Dow Down stands for data access object, as the name implies,
is the object that all he does is responsible for directly accessing our database.
OK, so that is what connects to the outer world, to the outside world, if you will.
So this layer here, our room, their base layer, it's where the management of local database is created
and is set up.
So we are creating objects that can connect to our database and then expose that information to.
In this case, we have a repository and then we have a view model, which we've talked about, which
holds all of the data needed for the UI.
So this is the one place where all the data is now.
Repository here is seen as the single source of truth for all app data.
Right?
And all this stuff, the repository is optional, right?
Because repositories of them imply this is where we can put all of the data.
So the data comes from through our DAO.
Right.
Because it connects to our database and everything.
And then we put everything in our repository and then repository is the intermediary between the lower
part of this diagram, which is to a base down and equalize entities in all that.
And the new model and of course, the user interface at the top.
So in the few modules we've seen, this is where we can use like data, right?
Which we haven't talked about, but life data.
It's just like immutable state or flow or anything that can observe the state of our data.
So if state changes right, then it's going to notify our user interface that the state has changed.
So do what you need to do, which in this case would be to recompose or update that user interface.
This is how we would structure our entire room database.
So that way we have a base structure we can always follow and have these pieces that work together.
Now, the question is always, especially as a beginner, you could always ask, why go through all
of this work if we could easily just go and get the data directly from Dow and go straight to your controller
or mix and match and everything?
Yes, it would work right?
But the problem happens when your applications get larger.
Right?
And now we have problems because everything is mismatched.
The state is being lost.
You don't know where the new model is or you don't have that.
And it just creates a lot, a lot, a lot of troubles.
And we always want to start out by following certain structure, right?
A structure that is proven to work and get used to that structure.
Yes, it requires a little bit more of setting things up.
It requires a little bit of understanding the pieces.
But in overall, this is how we need to get used to thinking that way.
We don't run into a lot of issues.
Later, I say our applications get complex.
And of course, it gives us a lot of flexibility because then we can extend each part of the structure.
We can modify one part and not affect the other.
Because everything is separated, everything is decoupled as much as possible.
So these are good practices we should always follow in structuring our room, their base.